>> Brian Holt: Everyone at a good
starting point, we're ready go?
Stoked?
[SOUND] All right.
[LAUGH] So here's what I wanna do.
I wanna have some sort of running total,
right?
I wanna actually keep track of
a number of what's been added,
what's subtracted, right?
Because if we come back
over to our calculator.
It's this one, okay?
So if I do like 5 + 5, right?
You have to know what was
in there previously, right?
You have to keep track of
what was in there, right?
Because if I do 5 + 5 that's gonna be 10,
right?
Where's that other 5 being held?
You need to hold it somewhere, right?
And now if I say + 36,
you're gonna do 10 + 36, but
I have to hold that 10 somewhere, right?
So I'm gonna call that my running total.
>> Brian Holt: So
let runningTotal = 0, right?
Cuz you're gonna start off at 0,
you're gonna assume that
the thing starts off at 0.
Now I need to keep track of what
I'm gonna call the buffer, right?
So if I say like 25 or clear 25, right?
The buffer is gonna represent what's
actually on the screen at any given time.
Now, I'm gonna give you a bit of advice
that you're welcome to not follow.
You could query the DOM every single
time that you wanted to know what was
on screen, right?
I find it preferable to keep that
information in JavaScript and
constantly write it to the screen.
So you have to decide what
your source of truth is.
And you'll hear that frequently with
JavaScript developers is where's your
source of truth?
Is the source of truth
what's on the screen?
Or is the screen simply displaying where
the source of truth is coming from, right?
So I'm gonna tell you that I think
you should keep your source of truth
out of the DOM and in JavaScript land.
Because there's a bunch of reasons for
that, but in general,
it's just easier if everything
lives in JavaScript.
And your interface is just
a reflection of your source of truth.
Does that make sense what I'm telling you,
right?
So I could just say, what's here on
the screen and query that out of the DOM.
I could pull it out of the DOM.
To me, it's better to keep
that in JavaScript, okay?
So let buffer, the initial thing that's
going to be on there is 0, right?
It's gonna be string 0.
Because what's actually gonna be on
screen is always going to be a string.
So it's good for
us to keep in mind what is that and
keep that as a string the whole time.
Then we wanna have previous operator.
>> Brian Holt: So
if I click 25 + 35 and click =.
What was I doing before?
What did I click before?
I clicked +, right?
So I have to keep that + somewhere, right?
So you have to hold on to
that bit of state, right?
This is a stateful interface.
When I say stateful interface that means
that it's keeping track of previous
actions despite the fact that it's
not showing me those actions, okay?
And then if I hit equal then I have to
commit or flush out that operation.
Good so far?
Okay, so that's a previous
operator is gonna represent.
It's gonna represent like if
they clicked plus or minus or
divide or multiplication or
anything like that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then here I'm just gonna grab the screen
const screen = document.getElement by ID.
>> Brian Holt: Or querySelector rather.
querySelector.screen.
>> Brian Holt: And this is where
we are actually be writing out to.
Programming in general is about taking
large problems and breaking them into
smaller problems, and smaller problems and
breaking them into smaller problems until
eventually you get to a point where
it's like okay, I can do that.
[LAUGH] Right, so,
>> Brian Holt: Let's just pick a button or
pick a problem and
start solving it, right?
So let's start with what happens if
a user clicks one of the buttons.
So function,
button click,
>> Brian Holt: I
wanna start with the init.
So I'm gonna write a function called init.
So if I'm writing just raw JavaScript
like we're doing right now,
I tend to have init function where I
know this function gets called once and
it kinda just sets everything up, right?
And then down here I will call init.
>> Brian Holt: There's no reason that
you couldn't just do this all in
the global scope.
You don't have to put it
inside of an init function.
For me, I just like it because I can
scroll down through a bunch of stuff and
say okay, here's my init function,
this is where everything gets set up.
For me, it's just kind of like
future documentation of like,
here's a function that gets run once.
If you need to set event listeners or
do anything like that,
this is the place to do it.
Personal convention, I'm gonna even say
it's common in the JavaScript community.
It's just something that I choose to do.
The other thing I really need to set
up here is I need to set up my event
listener.
So I'm gonna say
document.querySelector.calc buttons.
So this is the data that wraps
all of the calculator buttons.
>> Brian Holt: And then here I'm going
to add an event listener of click,
>> Brian Holt: Function event.
>> Brian Holt: And then here I'm gonna
create some function up here called
buttonClick that's actually
going to handle that.
I'm not gonna write it in here cuz I
think this is gonna be a little bit
easier to do.
So what I'm gonna do for
that is I'm gonna say buttonClick.
And I'm gonna put event.target.innerText,
>> Brian Holt: So let's do this.
>> Brian Holt: So you can see any
one of these buttons here has a 7,
8, 9, multiplication 4, 5, right?
So by passing in that inner text, this
button click is going to receive whatever
that particular button click had on it, so
it's gonna be some sort of value, right?
It's either gonna be backspace or
7 or 8 or 9 or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: I could just pass
the event in there directly.
But this just keeps the logic a little,
it's gonna be a little bit cleaner
here in buttonClick because I've
already pulled the value out.
>> Speaker 2: Instead of add event
listener, what does event mean?
So on click you're calling a function
that takes in something called event.
And then you call the buttonClick
function with that event, what is that?
What does that mean?
>> Brian Holt: So this event is gonna
be the actual DOM event, right?
Remember we're looking at before
whenever you typed in it,
it will give you back an event, right?
So this is coming directly
from the browser,
the browser hand is like here
is the event that just happened.
>> Speaker 2: And
I thought the event was the click.
>> Brian Holt: That's the event type.
So that's the type of event
that it's listening for, right?
So this is listening for click events.
And then this is the event that
comes back from the browser.
>> Speaker 2: I clicked on this thing?
>> Brian Holt: So
that's what the event.target is, right?
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So
this event has a bunch of stuff on it.
For the most part usual,
you don't really care about most of
the other stuff that's happening.
But yeah, this comes from the browser.
And there's a ton of stuff on it.
In fact, we can take a look at it here in
just a second what it actually looks like.
>> Speaker 2: I just don't know,
I don't understand what it is if it's
not the click event that we're doing.
>> Brian Holt: So let's just start
from beginning and see if this helps.
So here I'm grabbing the calc buttons,
right?
This is gonna be a div, right?
On the page, if we go over to our
index.html, it's this div, right?
>> Speaker 2: You mean section?
>> Brian Holt: Section, yeah,
relatively the same thing.
Yes, section.
So it grabs the handle on this section,
okay?
And then it adds an event listener and
just says whenever a click event happens,
run this function, okay?
The browser,
whenever it called URL even listener,
here's everything that I
know about this event.
That object is the event object.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so that might have
things about the position of your cursor
on the screen,
the time that it happened, the date?
>> Brian Holt: A bunch of stuff like that.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
Make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.